---
title: "Toward selective histone deacetylase inhibitor design: homology modeling, docking studies, and molecular dynamics simulations of human class I histone deacetylases."
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2005-JMC
excerpt: ''
date: 2005-05-27
tags:
  - HDACs
  - Docking
  - Homology modeling
  - Structural biology
  - Bioinformatics
  - Uiversity of Notre Dame
venue: 'Journal of Medicinal Chemistry'
paperurl: 'https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16250652/'  
citation: '<i style="color:DodgerBlue;">Wang, D.</i>; Helquist, P.; Wiech, N.L.; and Wiest, O. Toward Selective Histone Deacetylase Inhibitor Design: Homology Modeling,Docking Studies, and Molecular Dynamics Simulations of Human Class IHistone Deacetylases. <i>J Med Chem</i> 48, 6936-6947 (2005).' 
---  
Histone deacetylases (HDACs) play an important role in gene transcription. Inhibitors of HDACsinduce cell differentiation and suppress cell proliferation in tumor cells. Although many HDACinhibitors have been designed and synthesized, selective inhibition for class I HDAC isoformsis a goal that has yet to be achieved. To understand the difference between class I HDACisoforms that could be exploited for the design of isoform-specific HDAC inhibitors, we havebuilt three-dimensional models of four class I histone deacetylases, HDAC1, HDAC2, HDAC3,and HDAC8. Comparison of the homology model of HDAC8 with the recently published X-raystructure shows excellent agreement and validates the approach. A series of HDAC inhibitorswere docked to the homology models to understand the similarities and differences betweenthe binding modes. Molecular dynamic simulations of these HDAC-inhibitor complexes indicatethat the interaction between the protein surface and inhibitor is playing an important role;also some active site residues show some flexibility, which is usually not included in routinedocking protocols. The implications of these results for the design of isoform-selective HDACinhibitors are discussed.
